# ryker_blogpost
Blog post Info201

Ryker Bukowski
Tech Talk

	The Tech Talk began with the introduction of Alex who is going to speak about her new book, UberLand. After I got my chicken rap, I sat down to listen. She starts off with talking about tech companies of today. As the book hints at, she begins to talk with Uber. Alex speaks about how Uber launched the tech boom of empowering entrepreneurship. However, as she speaks, Alex starts to point out particular points about Uber where it is similar to a classical business, however they do not have to comply to normal standards. The book talks about how Uber imposes many rules about working for the company which goes against what their original business model. Drivers feelings of Uber change over time, exciting at first, then after some time with the company, they find out a lot of what is promised is not necessarily true. An example of that would have been Uber advertising that driving for the company, an individual could make upwards of $90,000 in New York City. In actuality, Uber drivers make closer to $10 an hour, and also have a turnover rate of 68% per year. 
	Uber defines itself as a Technology company, and not a taxi company. This enables them to get around certain regulations that come along with owning a taxi company. Alex talks about how Uber can get around many rules and regulations in order to make the most amount of money as possible. Alex spoke with Uber executives, and she found that there was an actual disconnect between them and their drivers and customers. Seeing drivers as consumers of their technology and that they are independent contractors, while the drivers see themselves as employees. An interesting point which Alex talked about was that Uber was experimenting quietly about what the passengers were paying, and the employees were paying. This was done in order to find out what more they could do to make more money. This is similar to what Facebook would do with experimenting with people’s emotions through displaying happier or more sad posts. This is very interesting because of how new this Share Economy is, as well as how technology can affect not only our individual lives, but also how regulations of them are affected, and the country or world is as a whole. 
	This was an interesting talk learning about how technology has affected every part our lives. Alex’s book seems to be very well researched and interesting! What I think is most interesting is how many of these tech companies, which are worth billions of dollars, are pretty much just intermediaries between two people. This means all they do is bring two people that need something from one another. Uber as an example is a company that brings together somebody who needs a ride, and someone who has a car. Many other companies do this, Instacart, Lyft, and Amazon. Examples like these are becoming much more popular over the past few years, and I’m interested to see what happens to the world over the coming years! 

